- [Instructor] Let's take into practice
everything we've learned so far by writing our first test.
When it comes to testing,
there are two different approaches we can use
from the smallest component all the way up
which is called bottom up approach or inside out.
This approach is great
When we have two different teams working independently
on a different services
and we are not so worried about integration.
However, when we have two different teams
and we know integration is going to be risky
in this case,
we want to prioritize building the integration
and points first,
and then focus on smaller components.
This is called Top-down approach or outside-in.
In our example,
we are going to start with Bottom up Approach
by writing integration tests for our repository.
We want to prove we can retrieve objects from the database
by queering it by student name.
We want to verify that student object
maps correctly to the database.
We will write our tests first
and then the actual implementation.
This is known as TDD and red-green refactor.
First, we will write a red failing test
and then write just enough code
to make our tests green again.
We can then do refactoring
by improving the implementation
without changing his behavior.
Let's create Student Repository Test Class,
another first test method.
Test gets student by name, return student details.
We will use a given when, then met structure.
In the given part,
We need to create new student.
Since student doesn't exist yet, we will create one
with properties, ID, and name.
We could create getters and setters
but what I like to use is project Lombok
which removes the ball plate code.
Let's give our student object name Mark.
Now, the assumption is
that ID will be autocreated per database.
Therefore we can leave it now.
Here we also need to persist our student.
Spring gives us a lot of options when it comes
to interacting with DB,
and the easiest way is to use GPA Repository.
We will create a new field, student repository,
Student repository must be an interface
and must extend GPA repository
that manages the entity of type student
with primary key of type log.
Keep in mind, this is just an interface
and spring data provides the implementation for us.
In order for this to take effect
we need to bring in spring to our test.
We could use spring boot test annotation,
that loads the full application context.
However, we don't want to test
the entire spring application.
What we only want to test is our data tier
and for that, we will use Data GPA test.
Since we have spring in our tests,
we can now inject student repository.
In one part, we still need to query students by name.
We will create a new query method,
get students by name, which returns the student.
And what is left to do is verify
that student is retrieved
and contains ID that is not now,
and name that is the same to saved student.
Now, our code compiles,
let's see if our tests is going through.
It failed.
It failed because we didn't mark student class as entity.
We also need to tell GPA what is our ID
and mark it as generated value
since we expect it is out to generated by database.
Now, our test is passing
however, we still have an undetected bug.
With GPA, we need to have a default constructor
in our entity class.
With data test GPA and using repository,
our changes are not flushed to the database
and we aren't really interacting with the database,
but with the first level cache of GPA repository.
Spring provides us with the convenient bin
called Test Entity Manager.
With Test Entity Manager,
we can use persist, flush find methods
to force synchronization
by inserting object to the database and detaching it.
Meaning, all new queries will be executed
to a low fetching entities again.
After refactoring, our bug has not been detected,
let's add a missing constructor.
And there we have it.
Let's run our test, and now it is green.